the current situation right now in the
cancer field is that cancer is a genetic
disease if you go to the National Cancer
Institute website the NCI website it
says cancer is a genetic disease caused
by somatic mutations mutations that
occur in cells of our tissues and organs
leading to disregulated cell growth uh
so the definition of cancer is
disregulated cell growth or cell growth
out of control that's the definition of
cancer
the theory that says what causes cells
to grow out of control is the somatic
mutation theory that mutations in the
DNA that control uh regulate the
regulation of the cell cycle uh uh are
are responsible for this disregulated
cell
growth um the uh alternative Theory
which is the one uh we support and the
one that OT warberg originally defined
was that
cancer uh arises as a uh an effect of
the damage to our energy producing
organel in the cell the the organel that
makes energy from oxygen and uh we and
others have shown that when that organel
becomes chronically corrupted uh it
leads to these reactive oxygen species
r that are carcinogenic and mutogenic
they damage DNA they damage proteins
they damage lipids so the mutations in
the the nucleus are not the cause of
cancer but an effect of the damage to
respiration so this is two contro two
totally different explanations for the
same phenomenon in one Theory the
somatic mutation Theory which is
supported by all major medical schools
and the National Cancer Institute is
that the disregulated growth cancer is
caused by mutations in the DNA of the
nucleus uh of the cell the mitochondrial
metabolic Theory says no that's not true
the mutations are secondary Downstream
effects of um of the uh disrup
disruption oxidative
phosphorilation so um so this is the
alternative two views of the origin of
can um so we have two alternative views
for the same phenomenon and in my view
if it's a mitochondrial metabolic
disease that means people can take
charge and and and uh essentially
participate in the man agement of their
disorder because the tumor cell having
defect in generating energy from oxygen
uh falls back on Ancient fermentation
Pathways was energy without oxygen like
all cells on the planet used energy
without oxygen before oxygen came into
the atmosphere and the early uh
development of life on Earth so these
cancer cells are falling essentially
falling back on Ancient Pathways of
fermentation and then you say well what
does that mean well what do they use to
get energy and energy is everything
listen without energy right we die quick
and you want to know how fast that is
people who drink Kool-Aid uh with LA
laced with cyanide uh drinking the
Kool-Aid laced with cyanide Jones
Jonestown everybody was dead instantly
very quickly okay that's what me that's
what happens when you have no energy
cancer cells can live in hypoxia they
can live in cyanide they don't need that
form of energy they they ferment they
use Ancient Pathways of energy and those
driven by the sugar glucose and the
amino acid glutamine so uh the solution
or a strategy an effect I don't want to
say solution but it's certainly an
effective strategy for cancer management
uh involves transitioning the whole body
over to a a respiratory fuel like fatty
acids or ketones and then selectively
targeting the glucose and the glutamine
thereby protecting the normal cells
while we uh starve and marginalize the
tumor cells and the body will gradually
eliminate them
uh from the body now now yeah sure you
can use radiation and chemo and all this
other stuff um which will certainly kill
cancer cells as you're an example of
that a Survivor but you can also kill
them by taking away their fermentable
fuels and blood cancers are remarkably
dependent on glutamine so and glucose so
all cancer we can't find any tumor that
can use oxygen for energy sufficiently
so they're all essentially dependent on
this fermentation metabolism and the
theory that describes that as called the
mitochondrial metabolic theory of cancer
as opposed to the somatic mutation
Theory these are two radically different
ways of looking at the same problem